# TerminalTextBuffer
This is the implementation of a terminal text buffer I made for an internship application at JetBrains.  
The buffer can be interacted with by running ```./gradlew run```. This will prompt the user for dimension and scrollback sizes, before printing a small terminal window to the terminal.  
It is possible two write/modify/print text to and from this window using the following set of commands. The size of the screen generated by this program is bounded between \[0, 80\] for width, and \[0, 24\] for height. These are artificial bounds (the text buffer can take any size it wants) to make sure that the output of this program and the actual terminal are clearly delineated. Please note that the current parsing for this project is very limited, so do not change case or add extra spaces when typing commands. All commands input should be followed by an enter so the program can properly recieve the input

## Commands  
### Left  
Entering ```l``` moves the cursor one space to the left, stopping if the cursor reaches the end of the line  
### Right  
Entering ```r``` moves the cursor one space to the right, stopping if the cursor reaches the end of the line  
### Up  
Entering ```k``` moves the cursor one space to the up, stopping if the cursor reaches the top of the stored buffer  
### Down  
Entering ```j``` moves the cursor one space to down, stopping if the cursor reaches the bottom of the stored buffer  
### Insert  
Entering ```i``` changes the internal state from Command mode to Insert mode. In Insert mode, all text input passed to the program (including multi-char strings) will be added to the buffer on the same line after the cursor's position. After insertion, the cursor moves to the space after the last added char. To return from Insert mode to Command mode, press the ```ESC``` key (and then enter). This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### Replace  
Entering ```r``` changes the internal state from Command mode to Replace mode. In Replace mode, the first char of any text input passed to the program will be used to replace the char currently underneath the cursor, moving the cursor one space to the left once the operation has completed, stopping when there is no more text to replace. To return from Replace mode to Command mode, press the ```ESC``` key (and then enter). This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### Delete  
Entering ```x``` removes the character behind the cursor from the buffer and moves the cursor one space back. Please note that currently when deleting the last character on a line the cursor may be moved to the beginning rather than the end of the previous one. This is a visual, not functional bug, entering x again will delete the last character of that line. This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### Fill  
Entering ```f``` followed by a space and a string will fill the line with the first character of that string from the cursor's current positin until the end of the terminal line. If the first character is ` ` or empty, no operation will occur. This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### New line  
Entering ```n``` adds a new line underneath the current one, moving the cursor down to its start. This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### Clear line  
Entering ```cl``` clears the current line from the buffer. This operation will only happen if the cursor is currently on the bottom line of the buffer.  
### Clear screen  
Entering ```cs``` clears the current current contents from the screen, but does not remove them from the buffer.  
### Clear buffer  
Entering ```cb``` clears the entirety of the buffer.  
### Print line  
Entering ```pl``` prints the current contents of the line that the cursor is on.  
### Print screen  
Entering ```ps``` prints the current contents of the screen.  
### Print buffer  
Entering ```cb``` prints the entirety of the buffer.  
### Set Width  
Entering ```sw``` followed by a space and an integer will set the width of the buffer and rebuild the screen layout. If the provided input is not in the range \[0, 80\], it will be automatically bounded.  
### Set Width  
Entering ```sh``` followed by a space and an integer will set the height of the buffer and rebuild the screen layout. If the provided input is not in the range \[0, 24\], it will be automatically bounded.  
